# Logging in Django

Django mostly uses the standard logging mechanism for Python. So there are lots of gory details are at `https://docs.python.org/3/library/logging.html`, with a friendlier discussion at `https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.9/topics/logging/`.

Django includes some built-in logging, including -- maybe most importantly -- logging at `DEBUG` level the SQL of every query it performs. So if you want to see Django on the SQL level, that's where you can get it.

These are the pieces you're wiring together in your configuration:

- `loggers`: these listen for logging events, either generated by Django or by you in your code, and then direct at least *some* of them to a logging handler.
- `handlers`: these name destinations for the information being passed to them by the logger. This is what directs output to a file, to a screen, or both, or to some custom code if you'd prefer.
- `formatters`: these take information for a given logging event and format it into a string.
## Creating a logger

The basic idea is simple enough: you create a logger, and then you can send messages to it in a simple way from inside your Python code. The logger then figures out what to do with the information you've given it -- put in on the tty screen, append it to a log file, or ignore it -- based on the level of the message (`DEBUG`, `INFO`, `WARNING`, `ERROR`, `CRITICAL`, depending on how cataclysmic an event is being logged).

To create a logger, include this in your Python module:

    import logging
    logger = logging.getLogger('django')

Then you can log information like this:

    logger.debug("Object name is {}".format( user.name ))
    logger.warning("I have a bad feeling about this.")
    logger.critical("Incoming missiles.")

Loggers (and handlers, which I'll describe below) have a minimum level of message they'll bother with. If I pass a `DEBUG` message to a logger which only handles `WARNING` or worse, the message will be ignored.

## Configuring the logger

The configuration laid out in dev_sqlite3.dev creates two logs.

One, `django.log`, will contain (among other things) all the SQL queries generated by the ORM. The other, `django.template.log`, will log the template process.

Both of these logs are set at level `DEBUG`; if you want them to be less omnivorous, set the minimum levels in the corresponding `handlers` section.



## Django and Logging SQL

There's a very helpful bit of logging built into Django: every time it
generates a SQL query, it logs it at level `debug` in the logger named `django`.
That's why I recommend having a logger that can receive these messages.


